1)
Second language(s) denote any language learned after the first/native language.
 
Either the second language is learned intentionally in school or subconsciously in the community, it contains 4 language skills. On the on hand, the receptive part is like an input of language implying reading and listening. On the other hand, the productive part is like an output of language covering writing and speaking.
 
The single Language-learning target is a term in L2 Acquisition approached by Noam Chomsky describing the competence of an ‘ideal speaker-listener’ of every native speaker.
 
There are different fields L2 theories are dealing with. First, Property Theory which describes the specific, original elements of the language system to acquire a language (L2).
Then, there is Transition Theory explaining the stages of development in L2 acquisition.
 
Interlanguage is a version of or between L1 and L2, while being substandard but more elaborate moving towards a native-like target, so that it has to be seen as an independent language system.
 
Implicit Learning is the term for an unconscious and unstructured way of acquisition of language due to social, environmental or other unintentional factors.
The opposite of this is explicit learning indicating systematic and intentional language learning as in schools or universities.
 
2)
Developing out of Structualism (1920s) and Behaviorism (1950s and 1960s), the first serious theoretical research according Second Language Acquisition was developed by Noam Chomsky in the 1970s based on the innateness hypothesis in his Generative Grammar Theory.
In the 1980s different perspectives, namely Interactionist SLA, were established, mainly by Stephen Krashen, distinguishing between internal and external (input, interaction, output) influential factors of language learning.
The Emergentist approaches in the 1990s focused on the language use and process due to experience with the help of methods of academic research such as Corpus linguistics analyses or experimental methods like Psycholinguistic analyses.
 
 
3)
a)
Performance and Proficiency of L2 is most adequately measured by computational programs like CEFR descriptors, which compare the learner with the native corpora. The main focus of the assessment/measurement lies on the syntactic and lexical complexity.
 
 
b)
Every L2 learner has to be seen individually. Due to internal and external factors, the outcomes of second language learning are very different. First, there are different personal abilities including cognitive and motivational ones etc. The latter involves the social environment, the degree and value of input and interaction with the surrounding. For example, an isolated person has more difficulties learning a language.
