1. A research report consists of four parts. The first part, the introduction, is the lead to the topic. In this part you have to say why your study is interesting and important. You also have to add the linguistic phenomenon. After you mentioned the actual research, you have to make a preview to your own research. The second part of a research report is the method. You can differentiate two methods: Corpus-based studies and experimental/behavioral studies. As third you have to describe the results of your study. After you just made a short summary of them, you have to analyse your data and put it in touch with your research question and the hypotheses. The last step of a research report is the discussion. In this part you also make a shirt summary of your results and discuss its importance. At the end of the research report there is a short outlook on future research.

2. Population = A population consists of many people with different interests and opinions.
Sample= A sample is a representative group of people out of the population. You need samples for a research, because you can't conduct an investigation with the entire population.
Types of Sampling = There are three different types of sampling. The random sampling means the same chance for everyone of the population to become selected for a research. The representative samling means that the population becomes divided into different groups with different characteristics. At least there is the convenience sampling. There are population members who are conveniently available to belong to the research.
Parameters= Parameters are a special set of variables of a research.
Operationalization = Operationalization determines how a construct should be made observable and measurable. It's of great importance in all empirical studies since it's the basic for carrying out measurements. A suitable operationalization is important when examining hypotheses.
Descriptive vs. inferential statistics = Statistics are important to analyse data. There are two different types of statistics. The descriptive statistic describes the important characteristics of a sample, the inferential statistic takes these characteristics to analyse the population.

3. There are three measures of central tendency: Mode, Median and Mean. The mode is the value which is available most frequently in the whole data. The median is the value which stands in the middle after you ordered all values according to their size. The mean is the average of all values. To get him, you have to add all values and divide them by the number of measurements.
Variance is one measure of variability. Variance describes the expected square deviation of the random variables from their expected value. The standard deviation on the other hand is regarded as a measure of the variance of the values of a random variable by its expected value.
