In our first real Corpus Linguistics session (16th April) we learned about the general key concepts of L2 learning and hat a short overview of L2 learning theories.
A second language (L2) is defined as a language we did not learn from our parents or in our earliest childhood(before we get four years old).
We define four different language skills. Reading and writing are written skills and listening and speaking are our oral language skills. Another classification of those skills would be receptive (reading + listening), so what we receive versus productive (writing + speaking), what we produce.
We learned about the property L2 theory and the transition L2 theory. The property theory focuses on language that a L2 learner aquired at a certain point of time. The transition theory on the other hand focuses the development of a learning process over a period of time.
Inbetween native language and L2 language there is something called interlanguage.Interlanguage is a state, that often native speakers of a language are in (usually children). When they do grammatical mistakes in their earliest years of speaking. For example not conjugating a verb in the right way. (go --> goed). So they know the vocabulary but not the right grammatical rules.
When people learn a language, there is the implict and the explict way of learning a language. The implict way of learning is usually the way, native speakers learn a language. It is basically learning by doing. The explict way of learning a language is the way, non-native speakers do mostly learn a language. It is learning a language in a class with clear instructions and grammatical rules.

In the second part of the lecture we had a short overview of second language learning theories.
The first approach was the behaviorist approach, where learners get rewarded, when they do something right. For example when a baby cries for milk and it gets the milk, the baby learns that if it wants milk, it has to say this particular word to get rewarded.This behaviorist approach was a popular approach for a long time until Chomsky ( a famous linguist) started to attack this approach and introduced the nativist approach.
The nativist approach says, that there is something in our brain, that gives us the the ability to learn a language we have never heard bevor. It is more like a biological approach that there is something like a language centrum somewhere in our brains.
Todays most supported approach is the emergentist appreach. It says that we need a certain input to be able to learn a language properly. So it is the exact opposite of Chomskys nativist approach.

