In the corpus linguistics lecture 11, we learned about lexical diversity, how to define and operationalize it, how to measure it to the assessment of learner corpora and how to use measures of lexical diversity to predict L" writing qualities.
Again, I have to mention, that the Complexity is one of the three dimensions of the Complexity-Accuracy-Fluency (CAF) traits. we learned about in the lecture before. That is why I will not again mention and explain that any further.
Last sessions focus was on the syntactic complexity while this one was on lexical complexity/ diversity/ richness. (Up to you how you want to call it).
Researchers were interested in determining what the use of vocabulary says about someones abality to speak a language. The lexical diversity figures also into the scoring criteria of a individuums proficiency level, like the syntactic complexity does. So there are certain criteria, one has to have, to be somewhere between C2 and A1. (Examples for that were given in the lecture. For example: B2: Can understand and use the main technical terminology of his/her field, when discussing his/her area of specialisation with other specialists. Or C1: Has a good command of a broad lexical repertoire allowing gaps to be readily overcome with circumlocutions; little obvious searching for expressions or avoidance strategies. There are some kind of tests to test ones vocabulary skills like multiple choice test, completion, translation or matching tasks, kids these day do already attend at school. (1st or 2nd grade already)
To observe how we can analyze lexical diversity in relation to al learners corpora, we looked at ZIPF's LAW which says: “One automatically strives to spice his life with variety to resist excessive crystallization and monotony. This spicing is accomplished by diversity of occupation and interest”. (pp. 109-110) “we select and arrange words not only to convey information but also to hold [the listener’s or reader’s] attention” (p. 215).

Also, we learned about the Etic vs. Emic approach to Lexical Diversity. But I have to admit, that I did not really understand that part of the lecture.

The main goal of a Sample study (Jarvis 2017) was to determine whether and to what extent lexical diversity is a genuine emic phenomenon or foster high-levels of inter-rater reliabilit. The data for that study was a corpus, comprising 276 narrative retells of an eight minte segment of a silent Charlie Chaplin film. The last thing was just how the study was made and what it showed to us. Short: The more vocabulary we use and understand, the better our language level is. It is as easy as that.
