The Corpus Linguistic Lecture 12 covered the topic of experimental data collection methods and how to properly design a research. The techniques may differ, but there are three main parameters we have to look at when we design a study by ourselves. Central questions based on Chaudron (2010:763) are: 1. Are measurements tasks designed to elicit adequate and accurate behavioral data? 2.What data collection procedures have been applied in L2 acquisition research, and what are the conditions and characteristics of each? And 3. How reliable and valid are the procedures and methods for collection of language acquisition data?
Experimental data collection methods are something like the contrast to our corpora research. In the experimental data collection methods, we are typically testing under more controlled conditions, involve elicitation of L2 production or performance on receptive taskt and are more decontextualized. A big advantage of this kind of testing is, that in our tests, we can exactly target what we want to find out, so we can set a focus in the tests already. On the other hand, a big disadvantage is, that it contains less contextualized and less extensive L2 production. For out study, we have to watch out what collection method fits best. However, the goal of experimental data collection methods in language acquisition research is, to gain insights into learners behavior or knowledge, independent of context and data collection.

There are three kinds of tasks/tests the lecture covered. First, the on-line language processing tasks, which contain real-time measures (how fast someone responses to something). In the Lexical Decision Task, the subject reacts to lexical words and decides for example if the words he is told are real or are not. In the Self-Paced Reading Task, the probant decides by himself how fast he reads a certain text and we measure the time he needs/takes to do that. 

The Elicited production tasks are a contrast to the on-line tasks, because it is a productive kind of test. In the Repetition/Recall Task (popular for testing children), the subject has to explain something he recently heard and we measure how correct it is pronounced, if the words are in the right order or if the spoken words are even correct.

The last task/test we spoke about is the Metalinguistic knowledge tast (off-line task). For that kind of test we need human interaction and human ratings. For example "A" says someting (1 or 2 sentences) and "B" has to decide, whether it is grammatically correct or not.

In the second part of the lecture, we learned ways of classifying experimental research designs. First the Pre-/PostTest Design where we do a PreTest, treat the subject, and do a PostTest after to compare what happened to the subject due to the treatment. Another kind is the repeated measurement, where we to tests for example once a week/month for some months/years to look it there are some long term changes in the subject. The third kind was the so called factorial design, but we did not really talk about that because it was to complex for our lecture.
