Session 13 of the corpus ljnguistics lecture was about combining corpus-based and experimental methods. Recent theoretical and methodological developments in language learning research were covered.
In language learning, there was an increasing interest in usage-based and emergentists accounts of L1 and L2 acquisition and processing. Central tenets of usage-based and emergentist accounts is the Learning-As-Processing assumptiuon (2006), the input frequency is therefore a key determinant of language learning processing and acquisition.
Investigation approaches of language learning is mainly based on Corpus-Based analysis, Computational Simultations, Psycholinguistic approaches as well as on Probabilistic and frequency-based theories.

But jn the past years, linguists moved away from the words-and-rules approach (1999) to the multi-word sequences (MWS) (2017). We learned that there are certain effects in learning multi-word sequences. Increased frequency causes the strengthening of linguistic representations, expectations and the automatization of chunks.

The role of MWS in language acquisition and processing is that children and adults are sensitive to the statistics of MWS and rely on knowledge of such statistics to facilitate language processing and boost their acquisition. It also shows that child-directed speech is characterized by use of MWS and that their early productions do rely on the use of such. Also, pattern are pbserved in recent computational simulations based on the input-output modeling approach (2017).

The representative study from Matthews and Bennard in 2008 tested experimentrally, whether children reuse the sequences of multiple words they hear and eventually store. It was based on a repetition task, where children had to repeat unfamiliar sequences of words, that were identical to familiar phases but for one word. (E.g.: Have a nice day, Have a nice hour, Have a nice meal; Let’s have a look; It’s time for lunch, It’s time for soup, It’s time for drums). The main findings of this research show, that children were more likely to repeat high-frequency correctly, than the low-frequency ones. Also they repeated the first three words significantly faster in high than on low-frequency sequences. (I will skip the adult language processing research from Arnon and snider (2010)

A key of the lecture was the case study by Hérnandez et al. (2016). It was about the processing of multi-word sequences in intermediate-advanced second language (L2) learners of English. The main goals were to detemine whether adult L2 speakers aresensitive to the frequency of four-word sequences, whether this occurs only for very high-frequency sequences or else and whether the type of L2 exposure influences L2 sensitivity to multiword sequence frequency. It was a replication of Arnon and Sniders research from 2010 I skipped before. So, it was a phrasal decision task, where the adults were compared in their reaction times to pairs of 4 word phrases, that only differed in one word from each other. The researchers divided the probants in two groups, the immersion exposure group and the classroom exposure group. The main finding of this sample study was that the effect of multiword sequence frequency was significant. Across both of the earlier mentioned groups, the adults were faster to respond to the high-frequency variant which caused shorter reaction times.

With that said, the study showed us, that L2 learners can develop sensitivity to the frequency of longer multiword phrases. Statistic learning mechanisms are mediating both L1 and L2 learning.
