Lena Olivia Berth, Matr. Nr.: 371503
2. Semester LABGyGe Englisch

Second language(s):
Foreign languages are a part of the more general term second languages. It is not exposed by the child's parents and not learned within the first four years of life. Furthermore a second language is not learned implicitly like the first/ native language but explicitly. It can be both - a language which is spoken in the local surrounding or a foreign language which is not. 

Language skills:
The language skills consist of four components which are categorized in oral or written and receptive or productive skills. They are reading, writing, speaking and listening. All together they help to accurately study and describe the SLA.

Language-learning target:
It is a term created by Chomsky which describes the object of study in L2 sciences.  According to Chomsky it has to be the underlying competence of an ideal native speaker of the language of the study's center. It is criticized though that a group of native speakers is never absolutely homogenous and always differs in its language skill competence. So the aspect of variability needs to be considered.

Property vs. transition L2 theory:
The property theory is a cross-sectional study, where the student's level is ckecked at one specific point of time.
The transition theory is a longitudinal study where students are tracked or observed over a longer period of time, their change an deveopment is the focus of the study.
That shows that the differnce between the two theories is if the concrete level or the process of SLA is the main aspect of the study.

Interlanguage:
The language students speak during the second language acquisition is called interlanguage. It is an 'in-between' state that includes targetlike forms as well as non-targetlike forms. Very often it is to be seen that students learned the rule of the language but not the exception as in goed/went.

Implicit vs. explicit learning/ knowledge:
Implicit and explicit learning is to be equalized with informal and formal language learning. Implicit and informal learning of a language happens without the intention and consciouness to learn. Explicit and formal language learning most of the times happens in schools with specificly trained teachers, tools and strategies.

Historical overview:
Behaviorist approaches: For a long time many linguists believed in behaviorist approaches. They have seen language learning as a process based on shaping the child's habits by a combination of stimulus and reaction. Via positive and negative reinforcement (that means feedback to the child's utterances) language skills should be improved. The problem and also the criticism other linguists had to claim was that the language learning would be limited to the input the children get.
Generative approaches: Since the 1970s Chomsky and the generative approaches formed the linguistic understanding of CLA. He and his colleagues believe in the generative grammar which describes the possession of an innate system of universal grammar everyone has.
Emergentist approaches: I the 1990s the emergentist approaches developed. Language input (and its quality and quantity) is seen as a key determiner for SLA. It is also seen as statistical learning from early childhood on, the more words a child hears and the more often the child hears them the easier it will learn the language. 

