
Techniques to collect data can differ extremly depending on the degree of textualization, limits of time and types on demands placed on the participants. Experimental data collection methods are characteristically attached to more controlled conditions and include surveys of L2 performance or production on receptive tasks. Furthermore they are constructed less communicatively and controlled by decontextualized constraints. 
There exist different kinds of experimental data collection methods with various basic structures. For example there are on-line language processing tasks (e.g. lexical decision task and self-paced reading task), elicited production tasks (e.g. repetition / recall task) and metalinguistic knowledge tasks (e.g. acceptability judgment task and magitude estimations task). 

The underlying assumption of on-line language processing tasks in general is that reaction times are indicators of processing complexity and therefore help to classify learner behavior. In a lexical decision task the participants need to decide whether a combination of letters is a real word or not. This data collection method is easy to administer but also has disadvantages. How the nonwords were constructed can influence the study results immensely and the fact that the words are presented without any context is far away from the experiences the participiants have normally.  Self-paced reading tasks are based on the observation of reaction time aswell. It allows the participants to press buttons to control the exposure duration of every word they read in a text. With the help of this time-measurement claims about the properties of the word being read can be made. The latencies of the button presses correlate with the time course of the cognitive processes during reading. Three types of presentation are possible: cumulative, linear non-cumulative and centre non-cumulative presentation. An advantage of this method is the the wide range of processing aspects that can be investigated with it (i.e. effects of syntatcic priming, processing of multiword sequences). An disadvantage of the method is its unnaturalness context in comparison to natural reading. 
Another kind of experimental data collection methods are elicites production tasks. One example is a repitition/recall task. Within this task the participants are asked to repeat a combination of words, a sentence or a short text (stimulus material) that contains some target grammatical or lexical structure or feature. The underlying assumption is that the better the participants reproduce what they heard before the better is their knowledge of the grammatical or lexical structure or feature. This method is conducted easily but cannot guarantee that a perfectly repeated stimulus is the result for a solid understanding of the feature but for a good memory. 
In metalinguistic knowledge tasks the participants are confronted with a set of linguistic stimuli to which they react. They rate and judge the sentences as acceptable or not acceptable. The disadvantage of this method is the fact that the judging strongly depends on two variables: the chosen sentences and the background of the raters. Therefore it is not always clear on which variable the result depends. Another example for metalinguistic knowledge tasks is the magnitude estimation task. A reference sentence is shown to the participants of that task and they are told that the acceptability of that sentence (standard) is a specific numberical value (modulus). Afterwards they get to see more sentences and are asked to rate these relative to the value of the standard. The advantage of this task is that the participants can give an exact number to support their opinion. At the same time it is an disadvantage because that kind of scaling leaves a lot of space for the participant and is therefore very subjective. 

Another question is though, how reliable and effective the treatments are. Therefore different kinds of designs exist and can be picked regarding to the goal of each study. Three examples are the Pretest/ Posttest design, the repeated measures design and the factorial design. The Pretest/ Posttest design is based on a pretest to guarantee comparability of the groups prior to their treatment and a posttest to measure the effect of the treatment. The reason why this design is used is because it shows if and to what extent a treatment study resulted in learning. Delayed posttest can be added to the posttests to measure possible long-term effects.
A repeated measure design means that each group member in an experiment is tested for multiple conditions over time or under different conditions. Elicitations of multiple samples from the same L2 learners are compiled over time. Thereby a higher statistical power is ensured because controlling for variability between subjects is built in. One of the problematic aspects of that design are possible order effects which means that the order of the treatments can have a siginificant effect on the results.
A factorial design involves more than one independent variable and can occur with or without randomization. It includes the need of multiple observations before the treatment to determine initial baselines and after the treatment to assess its effects. Usually only a small group of learners is employed. 

