Linguistic approaches changed since Noam Chomsky designed his theory about generative grammar and its inherent occurrence. The focus turned away from the human competence and an introspective way to look at language towards researches of probabilities and frequencies of language phenomena. That quantitive turn modified the way to study and examine language. 
For a statistical linguistic study, a population of interest needs to be specified which represents all people of interest, for example all German speaking people in Switzerland and all German speaking people in Germany. However, it is not possible to test and analyze such a large number of people. That is the reason why a certain sample has to be chosen, which is a sub-group to represent the population. Most of the times the bigger the population´s sample, the more representative the study´s results.
Usually linguistis decide three different kinds of sampling: First of all, the random sampling which implies the same changes for every member of the population to be picked out for the sample. Convenience sampling though describes a selection of people who are easily and comfortably picked for the study, for example friends or family of the researcher. The last kind of sampling is the representative one in which it is tried to pick as many different categories of people as possible; as all ages, all genders and all levels of education.
The sample error is a measurement to determine the difference betwenn the sample statistic and the population´s parameter. The smaller the sample error is the more precisely the sample represents the characteristics of the population.
To compare and analyze these samples the researcher is in need of paramters to determine his/her aspects of interest. That could be the speech rate, the use of a specific word or word formation, the stress or accent.
Another important feature of a linguistic study is the operationalization which transforms an abstract object of investigation into something that can be measured in different kind of ways. That could possibly be someone´s heart rate or facial expressions to observe the anxiety of using a language.
Statistic in general is analyzing data with the help of ceratin techniques and tools to afterwards interpret them. One specific form of it are the descriptive statistics which show the characteristics of a sample. That is made by mode, median and mean, among other things. The mode is the value that occurs the most in the data set, the median is in the middle after ordering the data set and the mean is all values summed up and and divided by the number of measurements. Furthermore the range describes the difference between the data´s highest and lowest value and the interquartile range divides the values in quarters. 
Besides of these tools to order and classify data, the selction of a useful sample and its correct analysis is significant. Therefore three general desiderato of quantitive research exist to ensure and/ or test that. First of all internal and external vailidity plays an important role in the analysis of phenomena. Internal validity describes the ability of the researcher to decide whether the stimulus, the treatment or other factors are responsible for the identified phenomena. External validity means that the results of the research can be generalized within a different sample. The second general desiderato is the reliability which means that the measurement stays consistent no matter if the instruments (instrument reliability) or the raters (inter-rater reliabaility) differ. The third desiderato is the replicability describes the possibilty to repeat the results within different contexts and with different participant populations.
But not only validity, reliability and replicability play an important role in the process of quantitive research; the different kinds of variables and their understanding are important to allow a structurized and expedient study. Besides the dependent variable which is the outcome variable and the independent variable which influences that oucome, there are more variable types as the continous and categorical variables. A continous variable is a numeric measurement that theoreticall has an infinite number of possible values (usually in a certain boundary). Whereas a categorical variables are numeric measurements which fall into two (binary variable) or more categories. Examples for contionous variables would be the age (10 Years, 3 Months, 17 days, 2 hours, 98 seconds...) or a person´s weight. Examples for categorical variables would be the school attendent (Gymnasium, Realschule, Grundschule, Hauptschule...). 
Other variables that change along different scales of measurement are these four: Nominal variables are two or more categories that exclude each other like gender or eye color. Ordinal variables are the case when ordered categories exist like on the scoville scale or grades in school. Interval variables are the case when intervals on the scale show equal differences between the points on the scale like the IQ. The last kind of variables are the ratio variables which are very similiar to the interval ones but include the zero on scale, like the weight of a person.
