
Written and spoken learner productions have always been an important source to learn something about language aquisition and language development. Lately the data samples emerged and went away from short texts which were mostly artificial because of very strongly prescribed language tasks. In order to the text´s size and artificiality the representativeness suffered and learner corpora have been emerged to larger texts and need to meet more requirements. They are electronic collections of natural data produced by L2 learners and compiled according to explicit design criteria. 
These design criteria include the following three main categories: language-related criteria, task-related criteria and learner-related criteria. The language-related category includes the distinction between written and spoken learner productions (mode), between the different genres like a letter, diary or essay, betwen various styles like narration or argumentation and different topics like general or leisure. Learner-related features are the L1 background and the L2 environment as well as internal-cognitive one like age or cognitive style and internal-affective ones as motivation and attitude. Finally the task-related features deal with the data collection and if the date is cross-sectional or longitudinal, the elicitation and if it was spontaneous or prepared, the use of references like a dictionary or not and if there was a time limitation. 
One example for a learner corpus compiled with the help of the three categories would be the following one: A longitudinal designed corpus compiled over the four years children spend at an english primary school to study their language aquisition and development. First of all a  school with a large number of pupils needs to be chosen. It is more reasonable to pick spoken productions because children of that young age (between 6 and 10) will probaly not produce written texts large enough to be representative. To not limit and control the language production too much but still give the children a topic to talk freely and naturally a situation where they should narrate what they did in their leisure time during the week at home should be picked. The use of different vocabularys, phrase structures or styles will not be limited too much because children in that age will not make use of academic language or special registers anyway. The age will depend on the grades they are in but to study the development it is important to observe the child from the beginning of the first grade to the end of the fourth. The motivation and attitude of every child is also to be taken into account, all texts should be taken in the same time during the day to avoid a significant difference in motivation or concentration. Also children from different social status should be picked to get different L1 backgrounds. The L2 environment plays an important role as well, the children should not have major differences in their language lessons. To get the most natural status of their language level they should not get any references to use and perform their texts in a most likely spontaneous situation but in a limited amout of time to structure the elicitation of texts. 
Learner corpora perfectly serve for language acquisition assesement. The main goals and aims of learner corpus research are a compilation from authentic data and thereby understand and describe language acquisition and L2 language varieties. Pedagogical tools can be designed which aim on the learners´ difficulties. With the help of a native-speaker control group (which is similiar in as many parameters as possible to the learner corpus) an authentic and representative comparison and corpus can be build.
One example for a learner corpus is the cross-sectional designed corpus CS1 (existing of three smaller corpora) that compares expert writing, learners and native writing. The result of that comparison was that there is no statistical significant difference between the groups (p-Value above 0,05), probably because all of the three groups have to learn academic writing newly.
Another example for a learner corpus is the longitudinal designed corpus CS2 which measures grammatical complexity in L2 writing development. More precisely it was observed if L2 writing changes over the course of the semster regarding to more complex noun phrase constituents and more complex phrases. The results showed that the phrasal complexity increased and the clausal complexity decreased. That is obviously the case because the more complex and filled with information the phrases are the less need is of clausal complexity. 
