Once the date is collected, a better inside and understanding of it is needed and that is what descriptive statistics are for. Also the lecture´s focus is on understanding the collected data, to get a summary and to provide an overview. That is accessible with the help of three performace measures: Measures of frequency, measures of central tendency and measures of dispersion. Here will be paid particular attention to the last two measures and their visualizations by using the examples of four learning journals written within four weeks. The three features which have been observed are the use of multiword sequences, the use of academic vocabulary and the word tokens (distribution of text length).

To show these different features and get an overview of the data, different graphs are used like generic X-Y plots, histograms, box plots, density plots and Q-Q plots. 
The measures of tendency are mean, median and mode. In the box plot diagram which shows the number of word tokens in the four learning journals the median is building the center of the distribution because it is less affected by the outliers than the mean. The median increases with every learning journal and therefore also the amount of word tokens. The measures of dispersion are range, interquartile range, variance and standard deviation. For the box plot named before the interquartile range (the difference between the third and first quartile) builds the the box (the frame) around the median and shows where most of the values are located. Especially the change from the quite narrow box from the first learning journal to the wider box from the second learning journal is noticeable, which means that the differences between the students in the use of word tokens is bigger in the second learning journal. Whereas the standard deviation does not really take place in the box plot because it describes how values are spread around the mean and not around the median. 
Another way to get a better understanding of the data is a generic X-Y plot to show the bigram frequency. There it is to be seen that in the first three learning journals the use of bigrams generally increased and that the use decreased again in the fourth one.

 When it comes to understand data it is also important to look at the outliers. Outliers are very extreme values, which are far away from the median and produced by people who under- or overperform extremly noticeable. Because the mean is the arithmetic average it is very affected and influenced by outliers. That is the reason why it is so important to also pay attention to the median and not only the mean to get a representative overview of the data set.

Besides the already mentioned measures it can be helpful to categorize the data in quartiles dependent on the percentiles. The first quartile includes 25 percentiles which means 1/4 of all scores are under that rate/ quantile. The second quartile and its 0.5 quantile are oriented to the 50 percentiles of the values, 1/2 of all scores are under the 0.5 quantile. And the third quartile is marked be the 0.75 quantile which is over 3/4 over all scores. The interquartile range descirbes the difference between the third and first quantile and is a measure of dispersion.  





