After determining the study`s phenomenon and the population the sample to represent the population needs to be compiled. When the sampling error is small enough the results of the descriptive statistics can be transfered to the whole population and inferential statistics can be used.
Descriptive statistics provide the characteristics of a population and present the discovered results. An example would be the average vocabulary size of a grade 9 or the variability of vocabulary size in a grade 9. Whereas inferential statistics use the recognized characteristics of a sample to draw conslusions about the whole population. An example for inferential statistics would be a study that examines if that average vocabulary size also applies for the rest of german grade 9 population. The main difference is observing (descriptive statistics) and concluding (inferential statistics). 
When it come to comparing two groups certain statistical tests are used by linguists. To find out which one to use it needs to be find out if the scores are normally distributed or not. If they are a parametric test is used, if they are not a non-parametric test is used. A parametric test makes assumptions about the parameters of the population distributions  and a non-parametric does not make these assumptions. Furthermore it is important to check if the two samples are independent (unpaired) or dependent (paired). Independent observations would be the study of the vocabulary size of a 9th grade and a 10th grade and a dependent study would be the comparison of a grade before and after the summer holiday. If there is a parametric test and two independent samples the t-test can be used, if the samples are paired a paired t-test is to be used.

One example for statistical hypothesis testing is the discussed case study from the lecture. That case study deals with the lexical richness in L1 vs. L2 academic writing. Lexical richness includes lexical density, lexical diversity, lexical sophistication and proportion of errors. The measure in this study is the type-token-ratio which compares the use of different lexical words (types) and the total number of used words. The Aachen corpus of academic writing (ACAW) of L2 learners and the corpus of british academic written english (BAWE) produced by native speakers are the two samples. To either reject H0 (H0=there is no difference between them) or to assume that H1 (H1=there is a difference) may be true a Welch´s two sample independent t-test was used because the study is normally distributed and therefore parametric and the samples are independent. In that example the difference between native and non-native wiriting is statistical significant and therefore you can reject H0.
