Nowadays the use of corpora and corpus data to inform research on language assessment and language testing practices increased immensely. Also major testing companies are using learner corpora to design their tests on real data. 

A guideline for orientation purposes according to proficiency levels of L2 learners that deal with corpora is the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). The CEFR includes 6 levels and distinguishes between Basic Users, Independent Users and Proficient Users. Measures to investigate the achievements of a L2 learner are range, accuracy, fluency, interaction and coherence. These tools are only for orientation purposes though and are based on intuition. That is problematic because we do not only want to describe and orientate, we want to have specific and clear measures to analyse the data objectively and allow an operationalization of the whole study. 
The reason why also testing companies are moving away from the human judging is because it is not objective and consistent. That inconsistency happens due to different experiences, different opinions and habits of the judging people. Therefore the trend is moving away from the traditional subjective grading and goes to corpus-informed approaches. 
These corpus-informed approaches are based on realistic writing/ speaking and concrete objective measures like type-token ratio or speech rate.
The three main approaches to using learner corpora in language are corpus-informed, corpus-based and corpus-driven approaches. In a corpus-informed approach the corpus is the reference source and data can be used to evaluate and judge other language performers in comparison to the corpus. A corpus-based study is built on a hypothesis or assumption concerning the learners and afterwards that hypothesis is tested with the help of certain corpora. A corpus-driven study does not include any assumption, it is only about collecting data without any expectations and letting the data speak. 
One example for the use of corpora and corpus data to inform language assessment is the contrastive interlanguage analysis. The analysis involves two types of comparisons. On the one hand comparing interlanguage data with native data (e.g. an L2 learner with a native speaker) and on the other hand interlanguage data from learners with different L1 backgrounds (e.g. peole from chinese and people from spain). 
An example to assess L2 performance is the study of cohesion in second language writing with a computational tool designed to automatically assess text cohesion. Therefore a learner corpus and an expert corpus, 30 texts each, were compiled. The system Coh-Metrix provides measures for a wide range of cohesive cues like lexical diversity, connectives, referential cohesion and latent semantic analysis.
*
