    
Complexity is a part of the Complexity-Accuracy-Fluency (CAF) triad which has emerged to build a framework for L2 asessment and therefore measures language proficiency, describes language performance and analyses language development. 
Besides that complexity is a multi-dimensional construct and can be influenced by several different linguistic features of the language performer. It gauges the degree and variety of sophistication of syntactic structures used in language production. Furthermore syntactic complexity is building the basis for writing test developments, theories or models of writing development and theories of rater decision making. 
There exist different types of measures to classify synatctic complexity. All these measures concentrate on different feautures of complexity like length of production units, the type and incidence of embeddings, the types and number of coordinations between clauses, the range and types of phrasal units as well as the frequency of clauses and phrases used. One example is to look at the mean length of the T-unit (the main clause + all associated dependent clauses) which describes the average length of the T-units in a text. Another example is to observe the noun phrase complexity which more precisely means to concentrate on the number of modifiers per noun phrase. A last example to measure syntactic complexity is to examine range and types of phrasal units as well as the frequency of clauses and phrases. Therefore it is possible to work with normed rates of occurence of non-finite relative clauses.  

Syntactic complexity is also used to inform research on second language writing development. The underlying assumption in this context is that an increase in syntactic complexity in written language production is to be matched with a development of language skills and writing proficiency. In the past, traditional views on writing development outweighed within studies concerning syntactic complexity. The reliance on measures of elaborated structures as the mean length of T-unit dominated the writing development assessment. Later though its lack of utility in testing applications and its poor theoretical linguistic basis was criticized. 
Nowadays the joint use of the computational tools and learner corpora have advanced our understanding of the relationship of syntactic complexity to L2 writing quality. Another feauture of measures of syntactic complexity is to predict second language quality based on human ratings. Because syntactiy complexity measures are found to correlate with quality scores made by human raters they can even predict human estimations about language quality. Some examples of these correlating measures are mean length of T-unit, coordinate phrases per clause, noun phrase complexity and the use of infinitives. 
To sum it up the measurement of syntactic complexity benefits from the reliance on a large number of measures and the use of computational tools to degree the language quality. Furthermore the results of measures of complexity are often likely to correlate with holistic measures of writing quality based on human ratings. 
