1. Write a description for the following key terms in the area of second language learning: 
    1.1 second language(s): Second languages are the ones learned later than in the earliest childhood. They encompass two kinds óf languages: The ones of wider communication within the local region and the ones which are truly foreign and have no substantial local uses or number of speakers. The two kinds are included within one general term since the learning processes of both are essentially the same.      1.2 Language skills: There are four key communication skills when learning second languages, listening, reading, speaking and writing. They combine oral and written factors with the receptive and productive units       1.3  anguage-lerning target: Most of the 20th century research of language science is based on the Chomsky's view. It says that the object of study, in this case the language target, should be the underlying competence of an ideal speaker-listener of each given language. So the native speaker competence  conduce as a convergent, single target for the L2 developement. Later t ese ideas were challenged in aspects of variability. The focus lied ob the emphasis on the dynamic nature of all language knowledge and a range of new terminology reflected the more open view of language learning goals, like advanced L2 users or multi-component speakers and others.      1.4 Property vs. Transition L2 Theory: The property theory focusses on modeling the nature of the language system which is to be aquired, whereas th transition theory focusses on the change and developmental processes of language aqui ition.      1.5 Interlanguage: The interlanguage is an in-between L2 system in transition towards the native-like target. Because L2 learners go through a series of developmental stages from deviant versions to more elaborate and target-like versions. The systematicities of interlanguage is a regular developmental sequence as well as a systematic production of non-targetlike forms. For example: the formation of negative sentences.     1.6 Implicit vs. Explicit Learning/Knowledge: The implicit learning is an acquisition of many of the most fundamental abilities, for example motor skills, object recognition or language. It relys on adaptations to the regularities of the world that proceed without the intention to learn and without the involvement of conscious awareness. The explicit learning in contrast contains various mnemonics, heuristics and strategies which are engaged to induce a representation system.      
 . Provide a short overview of second language learning theories.
In gereral second language learning theories should cover all kinds of learning, not only the formal, planned and systematic, but also the informal and unstructured. The beginnings in the 1970s start with the Chomskian Generative Grammar as a predominant theory in the linguistics. It includes the question of the extent to which innate UG principles and parameters accessible in second language acquisition and also the fundamental similarity or difference between the first and second language, but as well between childish and adult learning. In the 80s the focus on the relationship between learner-internal and external processes in L2 acquisition became more relevant in the interactionist SLA. The input, interaction and output became essential external variables and the influence of social context and the interaction with this context were revealed. The  0s were based on the emergentist SLA which thinks of the linguistic knowledge as a by-product of the establishment of networked connektions upon exposure to the probabilistic patterns unterlying the linguistic input. Now the learning and processing are discovered as inseparable, not as completely different mechanisms anymore. Emergentist aproaches are for example the corpus linguistic analyses, psycholinguisitic theories and the probablistic and frequency-based theories. Language knowledge is seen as experience- riven and as a continuously adapting sytem in response to language exposure.  
3. Discuss the following two key research questions:
    3.1 How can second language performance and proficiency be most adequately (i.e. validly, reliably and feasibly) measured?
    The performance and proficiency can be most adequately measured by the common european framework of r ference for languages (CEFR)  There are three level groups: A) for the basic user B) the independent user C) the Proficient user. Within the CEFR different standards are laid down which ensure an orientation relating to  alidity, reliability and feasibility. Furthermore there are language assessments to ensure the three factors. Like for example the ACAW, MICUSP, BAWE and ICLE which give the opportunity to compare native and learner corpora oder learner and expert corpora. The measures can be of syntactic or lexical comlexity.      3.2 What factors affect second language learning?
    The learning of a second language and the outcomes vary considerably and the sources of the variation are multifaceted. This factors can be devided into learner-internal and learner-external factors. The internal factors include cognitive abilities and personality dimensions, such as working memory, phonological short term memory, aptitude or motivation. The external factors are related to the learners environment where the learning takes place, such as input, interaction or instuctional factors.   