1. Describe the four main components (IMRAD) of the research report.
 The research report includes four components, shortened by the acronym IMRAD which stands for Introduction, Method, Results And Discussion. In the introduction should refer to the subject of the study - the purpose and the reason for conducting it. It should give the background and the preview of the subject, for example the description of the discussed  henomenon, the literature review and the presentation of the research questions and hypthesis. The m thod looks at the question when, where and how the study was done and which materials or study groups were involved. It can be devided into corpus-based and experimental/ behavioral studies. ohT m thod of c rpus-based studies includes the description of the used corpus data ( or example cross-sectional or longitudinal and spoken or written) and the description of the data pre- and postprocessing (like the data extraction procedure or the data annotation). The method of experimental or behavioral studies includes the subjects and the used material,  timuli and procedure. The method is followed by the presentation of the results, surrounding the answer to the research question and what the study found and whether the tested hypothesis are true. In a first step the results are layed out in a descriptive summary, where tables and figures can be presented to summarize and picture the findings and beeing discussed afterwards. The figures or tables aren't sufficient by their own, they should be underlined by the suggestions from the descriptive statistics. In a second step the researcher submit the data to statistical analysis with inferential statistics. Here the type of the used test and the relevant measures (p-value, degrees of freedom, confidence intervals) are presented. The final  omponent of the research report is the discussion of the results. It should give an answer to the following questions: What might the answer imply and why does it matter; how does it fit in with what other researchers have found; what are  
            ives for future research. Therefore the discussion includes a short summary of the results, a discussion of the theoretical and applied implications and a view to the future direction of research with the open questions which remained unsettled.  
2. Provide a description of the following terms: 
    2.1 Population: Population is the statistical key term for a group that  epresents all objects of interest.      2.2. Sample: Samples are used as representatives of the population. There is also a  ampling error, which stands for  he tolerated  ifferences between a sample statistic and the corresponding population parameter. The smaller this sampling error, the closer the representation of the sample stands fo  the true characteristics of the population.     2.3 Types of Sampling:  here are different types of sampling, such as random, representative and convenience sampling. The first says that every member of the population has equal chances to be selected, the second is drawing a sample in such a way that it matches the population on certain characteristics and the third collects data from population members who are conveniently available to participate in a study.      2.4 Parameters: Parameters are the optained values of a population. For example the comparison of the speech rate of speakers of dutch spoken in Belgium and in the Netherlands. The population would be formed by all dutch speakers in the two countys, whereas the parameters would be formed by the values obtained from that population.      2.5 Operationalization: Operationalization describes the process of defining the measurement of a phenomenon that isn't directly measurable. It ensures a clear de inition of a abstract concept to make it distinguishable, understandable and measurable in terms of empirical observations. Variables are strictly defined into measurable factors, so that the  can be measured as well empirically as quantitatively.      2.6 Descriptive vs. inferential statistics: There are two kinds of statistics: the descriptive and inferential. The first one provides the characteristics of a sample - for example the average speech rate in a sample of 200 belgian dutch speakers. Measures of descriptive statistics are for example measures of  entral tendency (mode, median, mean) or of variability (range, interquartile range).  he inferential statistics calculate with the findings of the descriptive by using the characteristics of the sample to make conclusions about a population in general. For examlple the comparison of the speech rate of speakers of Dutch spoken in two different countries. Interferential statistics can reveal whether the difference is statistically significant or can be merely a tributed to chance. Therefore the sampling error is used.  
3. Describe 
    3.1 Measures of central tendency: Measures of central tendency belong to the descriptive statistics. There are three types: mode, median and mean. The mode is the value that occures most frequently in the searched data set, whereas the median is the value, that when you bri g all values in order, is the one in the middle. To concretise: there have to be equal numbers of values above and below the median. The mean is the usual average, therefore the sum of measurements is divided by the number of measurements. The most popular example is the determination of a classes grade point average.      3.2 Measures of variability: The measures of variability belongs to the descriptive statistics as well. There should be named four types in this journal: range, interquartile range, variance and standard deviation. The range is the difference between the highest and the lowest value. It's problem is, that it can be missleading when there are outliners. The interquartile range devides the distribution of values into quarters which forms the quartiles. The first quartile is the quarter of the lowest observations, the second the quarter of the observations up to the median, the third is the quarter of observations above the median and the fourth is the quarter of highest observations. The variance defines the variability of data by terms of how close the scores in the distribution are to the middle of the distribution. It is defined as the average squared difference of the scores from the mean. So this measurement uses a measure of central tendency - the mean for the middle of the distribution. The last one, the standard deviation, is the square root of the variance.     