Learning Journal 11

In contrast to all prior lectures, this week's lecture did not deal with corpus research methods but experimental research methods.
In experimental research the key factors concerning data collection are reliability, validity, adequateness, accurateness as well as the conditions and characteristics of each data collection method. The techniques vary along the dimensions "degree of contextualisation", "presence of time constraints" and "types of demands placed on the subjects". As the names already suggest, the degree of contextualisation determines how much context for the elicitation method is given to the participants, i.e. do they know specifically what they are tested for and how it is going to be done. The dimension "presence of time constraints", on the other hand, makes a statement about whether the data elicitation is done under a time condition, i.e. the subjects have a fixed timeframe for completing the task. The amount of time given may affect the quantity and quality of the produced data. Lastly, the "type of demand" defines the concrete method of elicitation, i.e. public speaking, casual interview etc.
Generally speaking, experimental data collection procedures are usually employed under controlled conditions meaning that there carefully planned instructions. This means that it is not necessary to normalise the data afterwards. In addition to that, experimental research typically focuses on receptive tasks rather than productive ones and the degree contextualisation is mostly pretty low. A major advantage of experimental methods is that the controlled conditions enable quite precise and aim-directed data collection so that even structures commonly avoided by participants due to their complexity can be elicited. However, the controlled conditions and lack of context also create a highly artificial environment which might affect the participant's production in that it becomes less extensive, for example.
The subsequent goal of experimental data collection is obvious: It is used for decontextualised examination of learner behaviour and knowledge. As with corpus research, the chosen measures depend on the research question and the theoretical background, i.e. the presupposed expectations on the respective age group, sex etc. for each method.

For data collection, there is a variety of different tasks at the researcher's disposal. They can generally be subdivided into on-line language processing tasks, elicited production tasks and metalinguistic knowledge tasks. Starting with on-line language processing tasks, their underlying assumption is that longer reaction times during data elicitation correlate with more processing difficulties. They are used for receptive tasks. It has to be noted that for these methods, word frequency effect, i.e. the fact that, as Zipf's law also states, some words occur more frequently than others and are, thus, more easily accessible. Therefore, longer reaction times do not necessarily correlate with processing difficulties when the task contained a large number of rarely used words.
The two most common on-line language processing tasks are the "lexical decision task" and the "self-paced reading task". For the "lexical decision task", a certain number of words are shown to the subject and he/she has to decide whether the word is an actual lexical word or simply made up. The nonsense words are also called "filler items". This task is very straight-forward for investigating a wide range of processing aspects like lexical access and syntactic processing. However, a big disadvantage is that the words are viewed in isolation which would normally never happen outside of a test situation. This method is, therefore, very unnatural. In the "self-paced reading task", participants are asked to read sentences while they have control over how fast each word or phrase is presented. It is, for example, used to investigate how they deal with ambiguities, i.e. if they have a preference for one meaning over another. The problem is that people usually do not read in such a linear fashion so it, again, elicits artificial data.
Now, secondly, we have the "repetition/recall task", a typical elicited production task. Elicited production tasks are used for productive data collection and provide an especially appropriate stimulus for participants who cannot read. In the "repetition/recall task", subjects are instructed to repeat what they hear. The baseline assumption is that the more successful their repetition is, the better the understanding of the repeated grammatical or lexical structure/feature is. For this method, it is particularly important to pay attention to not deriving false conclusions from the data. Especially for pre-schoolers, who these types of tasks are suitable for above all, the inability to repeat the structure might not actually be due to a lack of understanding of that structure but more a matter of lack of motivation or interest.
The last type of task, the "metalinguistic knowledge tasks" are off-line methods meaning the response time is unimportant. Therefore, they are used for a more general assessment of the participant's metalinguistic knowledge. There are to main types: the "acceptability judgement task" and the "magnitude estimation task". In both, the subjects are asked to evaluate if a given sentence is a grammatical or otherwise acceptable utterance. They only differ in that for the former, the subject has to make an absolute statement about the acceptability and in the latter, the evaluation is done according to a scale in comparison to a reference sentence called standard.

The research design in experimental research depends on two main variables. On the one hand, the design can be either univariate, i.e. contain only one independent variable and one dependent variable, or multivariate, i.e. contain multiple independent and dependent variables. On the other hand, the design can be either between-subject, i.e. the same test is performed on different groups, or within-subject, i.e. different tests are performed on the same group. Once the researcher has determined these variables and designed the test procedure, it is always necessary to do test the design in a small-scale trial. This is called pilot testing and used to uncover problems with the design and allow for revisions. Furthermore, a questionnaire for collecting background information on the participants enables to foresee potential impacts of the participant's characteristics on the results and may, therefore, function as another factor worth considering when evaluating the feasibility and usefulness of the chosen data collection methods for the experimental research. Here are some possible, common test designs that have proven themselves as particularly apt. The pre-test/post-test design features two tests; one after the treatment, i.e. the tests and one before the treatment for comparison in order to measure the treatment's effects. Due to time limitations, post-test only designs are also fairly common. Here the focus is rather on the performance than the development resulting in a lack of comparability. Repeated measures designs are similar to pre-test/post-test designs in that they are also used for tracking the learning development. The only difference is that, here, we do not only perform two tests but multiple ones over a longer period of time. Lastly, we have factorial designs. Their main characteristic is that they there are multiple independent variables involved in the testing.
