Learning Journal 12

This week's lecture dealt with recent theoretical and methodological developments in language learning research.
In contrast to previous language learning research, contemporary models are typically usage-based and grounded on Emergentist's approaches and not Nativist ones. The main assumptions of usage-based and Emergentist's approaches are that they think of language as a skill in terms of a general cognitive mechanism meaning that there is no difference between L1 and L2 language acquisition and processing and that the quantity and quality of the language input determines the success of the learning process. These conjectures are derived from empirical evidence gained from a combination of corpus-based analysis (e.g. findings concerning recurrent patterns in language like Zipf's law), computational simulations (e.g. input-output modelling), psycholinguistic theories (e.g. entrenchment) and probabilistic and frequency-based theories.
Within recent research, there has been an increased interest in the role of multi-word sequences (MWS), i.e. recurring strings of words in language, while the traditional words-and-rules approach by Pinker have been largely ignored.
MWS are mainly acquired based on their frequency of occurrence. There are three main consequences of higher frequencies of MWS. For one, the linguistic/mental representations of the MWS are strengthened meaning that they become more easily accessible. Secondly, the expectations of MWS are reinforcement which enables predictions of upcoming MWS and lastly, through these effects, the use of MWS undergoes a process of automatisation.
The substantial role of MWS in language acquisition and processing is supported by an extensive body of evidence from experimental studies. They showed that children and adults alike are highly sensitive to MWS statistics for both language processing and acquisition. Additionally, early child production as well as child-directed speech produced by adults has been observed to be full of MWS. This pattern of frequencies was also possible to replicate using input-output modelling.
For native speakers, child language acquisition and adult language processing studies by Matthews & Bannard (2008) and Arnon & Snider (2010) delivered further evidence to sustain this thesis. Matthews and Bannard used a repetition/recall task to observe the store and reuse abilities of monolingual children based on the frequency of a given MWS. The underlying assumption was that more frequent MWS should be easier for children to repeat and, indeed, the studies' results showed that, for both 2- and 3-year-olds, the children were more likely to repeat high-frequency sequences correctly and repeated the first three words significantly faster. Arnon and Snider intended on examining whether the same holds true for adult native speakers. Choosing a task appropriate task for their study, they used a phrasal decision task to test students on their ability to decide whether two given four-word phrases that differed only in the final word are actual English phrases. Their main assumption was that more common sequences are easier recognisable as existing phrases. The outcome showed that the participants were sensitive to the phrase-frequency and, therefore, responded faster to high frequency phrases than to lower frequency ones.
Recently, a case study by Hérnandez et al. (2016) was carried out in order to determine whether adult L2 speakers are also sensitive to the frequency of four-word sequences and if the type of L2 exposure, i.e. immersion (passive exposure to the language) or classroom learning (active learning of the language), made a difference. The research design consisted of an exact replication of the study by Arnon & Snider (2010) the only difference, of course, being the population. Besides 52 non-native speakers of English with an intermediate-advanced proficiency level where 27 participants were part of the immersion exposure group and 25 of the classroom exposure group, they also included 27 native English speakers as reference. The results showed that, indeed, the effect of multiword sequence frequency was significant, i.e. the participants responded faster to higher-frequency MWS and that regardless of the type of exposure they were subjected to. This not only means that L2 learners too can develop sensitivity to the frequency of MWS and are prone to statistical learning mechanisms but also that the type of L2 exposure does not matter and that unified models for both L1 and L2 learning should, theoretically, represent the reality of language learning the best.
