Learning Journal 13

The last session of the corpus linguistics lecture gave an overview/ summary of the topics covered over the course of the SS 2018.
The lecture was designed as a general introduction to research methodology and design with a main focus on L2 acquisition, learning and processing using corpus-based technique, although some experimental ones were also presented.
The semester started with providing basic knowledge of the research area, i.e. L2 acquisition, learning and processing. The key concepts second language (e.g. transfers/inferences/differences between L1 and L2), language skills (receptive: listening, reading; productive: speaking, writing; CommonEuropeanFrameworkofReference: A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2), language-learning target, property (cross-sectional) vs. transition (longitudinal) L2 theory, interlanguage (in-between language proficiency due to pattern generalisation) and implicit (unconscious) vs. explicit (conscious) learning/knowledge were presented, followed by a short overview of L2 learning theories ranging from behaviourist approaches (Skinner: stimulus/response) over generative (critique of behaviourist approach by Chomsky: universal grammar; Armchair linguistics) and interactionist theories (child/parent feedback) to the most recent and widely used emergentist approach (quality and quantity of input). The key questions in L2 learning research that we were concerned with were the assessment of L2 performance and proficiency as well as individual differences in L2 learning based on quantity and quality of input, motivation, working memory capacity and personality.
The lecture continued with a rough introduction to common research methods and, therefore, outlined the meaning of notions like research question (general) vs. research hypothesis (with background knowledge), writing a research report according to the IntroductionMethoodResultAndDiscussion structure, population (too big) vs. sample (representatives of population) and sampling types (representative, random, convenience), parameters and their operationalisation (making them measurable), data collection methods, hypothesis testing based on H1 (there is a difference) and H0 (there is no difference; may also be directional) hypotheses and their respective rejection depending on if the p-value falls below 0,05 (test statistics), variable types, i.e. independent (influencing factors) vs. dependent (influenced variable) variables, scales of measurement, i.e. nominal (e.g. native/non-native), ordinal (e.g. school grades), interval (e.g. temperature) or ratio (e.g. frequencies of occurrence) and the measurement of L2 learning in particular.
After that, the focus lied on Corpus Linguistics. Again, general concepts were introduced first, namely corpus (large collection of quasi-natural language production), corpus linguistics (uses corpora to study language), corpus design, corpus compilation corpus pre-processing, corpus mark-up and corpus annotation and corpus queries (CQPweb in our case),
In the following lectures, the difference between descriptive statistics (purely descriptive) and inferential statistics (used for the reduction of errors) was explained and their respective vocabulary was introduced. For descriptive statistics: measures of frequency, measures of central tendency (mean: adding everything together and dividing it by the overall entry count; median (middle value after organisation); mode (most frequent value), measure of dispersion (range: lowest to highest, interquartile range (range between quartiles), variance and standard deviation. For inferential statistics: normal distributions and probability, the comparison of two groups using parametric vs. non-parametric tests and the most popular tests of independence.
With this background knowledge, the lecture then aimed to present how corpora can be used in language assessment and testing, particularly in learner corpus research. Accordingly, the following concept of the complexity-accuracy-fluency triad was introduced with a special focus on syntactic complexity (definition, operationalisation, measures and automatic assessment, using it to track L2 writing development and its relationship to the writing quality based on human ratings) and lexical diversity (definition, operationalisation, measures and automatic assessment, using it to predict the writing quality based on human evaluation).
The penultimate part of the lecture then shifted the focus from corpus techniques to experimental ones, whose main field is language acquisition research. The three desiderata of quantitative research (validity, reliability and replicability) were introduced and different experimental data collection methods were presented (on-line language processing tasks, e.g. lexical decision task or self-paced reading task; elicited production tasks, e.g. repetition/recall task; metalinguistic knowledge tasks, e.g. acceptability judgement task or magnitude estimations task). Additionally, a variety of research designs in experimental research based on variables and participants were listed, namely pre-/post-test design, post-test design, repeated measures design, factorial design, time-series design and one-shot design.
Lastly, the lecture gave an overview of recent theoretical and methodological developments in language learning research and stressed how current research is mostly based on emergentists and usage-based approaches and that this is why multi-word sequences (formulaic sequences) are especially examined in contemporary studies. Also, today's language learning research is not limited to corpus-based, computational or experimental methods but lies at the intersection of all three approaches.
