Learning Journal 2
This week's lecture (23.04.2018) was a general introduction to research methods in linguistics and subdivided into three parts: key terms, the structure of a research report (IMRaD) and data collection methods in second language research.
The very first step when wanting to do empirical research is formulating a research question. This question contains the main idea of what topic the project wants to investigate. This idea may originate from coming across unanswered research questions either in more generel terms or in a specific field of study (i.e. a niche in research). Replicating a before conducted study can also serve as a starting point. Either way, being informed about the current state of art (i.e. the most recent research) by studying current literature is crucial for making out if a desired topic of research is worth elucidating.
The research question is not to be confused with the research hypotheses. In contrast to the research question, the research hypotheses already makes a specific claim about what the results of the study will be. They are therefore written in conditional form (if... then) and relate at least two variables with each other. A variable in this case describes a variable set of attributes, properties or objects that are taken into account during the research by being described or measured in a certain way. There are two types of variables: dependent (response) and independent (explanatory) variables. When examining the effects of smoking on the likelihood of getting a cardiovascular disease for example, smoking would be considered an independet variable, because it's the variable that influences the dependet variable. The dependet variable then is the outcome variable, i.e. the chance of getting some kind of cardiovascular disease. The research hypotheses then states, what influence the conductor of the study thinks smoking will have on the probability of getting a cardiovasular disease. This part of the research always consists of two hypotheses: a null hypothesis (H0) and an alternative hypothesis (H1). The null hypothesis will always state that there is no difference in the outcome variable caused by the independet variables. The alternative hypothesis, on the other hand, will either simply say that there is a difference in the outcome variable, which is then called a non-directional H1-hypthesis, or will go on to explain the expected outcome in the aforementioned conditional form, which is called a directional H1-hypothesis. The reason for this standardised approach is that contemporary science is based on the logic of falsification, meaning that in science, the goal always is to disprove or reject something but never to prove the opposite. The H0-hypothesis is the one that is judged by either being rejected or not.
To decide, whether a H0-hypothesis can be rejected or not, test statistics is used. It's a way of showing that the findings of the research are not a result of mere coincedence, but instead have real, empirical research value. The p-value, the probability of a specific outcome under the assumption that H0 actually is true, does exactly that. If the p-value is smaller than 0,05 (as used in social sciences, others often use 0,01 instead), it means that H0 is not true and therefore can be rejected, because, contrary to what H0 assumes, the statistics show that there is indeed a difference in the outcome variable caused by the independent variables. If the p-value is bigger than 0,05 however, it suggests that there is no sufficient evidence to reject H0 in favour of H1. The examined variables may not influence each other. This does not prove that H0 is true, though!

A research report consists of four essential parts than can easily remembered by thinking of the word IMRaD: Introduction, Method, Results and Discussion. In the introduction, the research question is stated against the backdrop of the current state of the art and the motivation for studying the chosen topic is explained. In the method part, everything relevant for a potential replication of the project is described to great detail. This may include the kind of population used (age, gender, preexisting skills, size etc.), what kind of test is used for collecting data and how it was constructed or the method of measuring the observed variables. In the results part, descriptive statistics is used to describe the findings of the project and make a statement about the tested hypothesis, which is then connected to previous research in the discussion, while also explaining the data and outlining possible conclusions or giving an outlook for future research.

There are three main ways to collect data for L2 acquisition research specifically: naturalistic (contextualised) methods, elicited production and experimental (decontextualised) methods. A form of naturalistic data collection would be corpus-based research. A clear advantage here is that the data is authentic and not biased, because its producer doesn't know that and what his data is going to be used for (eliminates observer's paradox). It may become problematic, however, to find adequate data to support what is to be investigated. Structured interviews or role play are forms of elicited production. They shine in continuity across test subjects through consistent surveying and resulting comparability, but may fall short when it comes to authenticity, because factors like motivation may have an impact on the individual's performance. Lastly, an experimental way of collecting data would be any kind of experiment, e.g. an eye-tracking experiment. Experiments allow for a very specific designs and controlled data collection, but are highly artificial in form so that the results may not be generalisable.
