Learning Journal 5

Lecture 6 of Corpus Linguistics was on corpus-based approaches to second language acquisition. It was subdivided into three parts, namely what a learner corpus is and what to consider when compiling one, the goals of learner corpus research, and two exemplary case studies illustrating the mentioned advantages and aims.

Starting with the first topic, learner corpora emerged as a reaction to the artificiality (due to highly controlled language tasks) and lack of representativeness (due to small sample sizes) of previously used data. The use of learner corpora was a great methodological improvement, because they come in electronic form and, therefore, easily accesible and contain (near-)natural data of L2 learners that is collected according to explicit design criteria. Like other corpora, learner corpora can either be balanced (i.e. representative of a language as a whole) or specialised (i.e. representative of a certain variety of a language). An example for a learner corpus is "The Aachen Corpus of Academic Writing" (ACAW).
When compiling one`s own corpus, there are several features of a corpus necessary to consider. In order to illustrate them, let`s image we were to compile a corpus dealing with how the proficiency in English changes over the course of the first few years of learning English in school as a German in Germany.
Firstly, there are language-related criteria: We have to determine the features mode, genre, style and topic. For our example, we would be using the spoken mode, since writing a longer, representative text is probably too hard for beginners. The genre should ideally be rather creative, like telling a story based on visual cues, which hopefully guarantees that the participating children have an idea of what to talk about as a result of the flourishing creativity of kids. The same reason applies to why we should prefer a narrative style; it`s pretty much impossible for children to write a full-fedged argumentative essay about a certain topic. However, despite the creative approach, the topic should be rather fixed. Otherwise we might not really be able to compare the produced data, because some topics could lend themselves to more complex stories, which could lead to an artificially increased eloquence in these children.
Secondly, the learner-related criteria: internal-cognitive criteria, internal-affective criteria, L1 background and L2 environment are topics to consider. Due to our assumed example corpus, these factors are easily determinable. We want to examine the development throughout the first years of learning English, so our age groups should range from around 6 to 10 years old, because that`s about the time, where most children in Germany first come into contact with the English language. Their cognitive-style might have to be detected using personality testing, even though, as already mentioned, it should generally be possible to assume that this factor doesn`t weigh much into the end result, for most children tend more towards the creative/artistic way of thinking anyway. A positive motivation and attitude of the children could be achieved by placing the data collection process into a game-like setting as much as possible. The L1 background and L2 environment are pretermined by out example: The L1 of the children is German and the corpus observes their first exposure to English, which is their first foreign language.
Lastly, the task-related criteria include data collection, elicitation, use of references and time limitation. Since we want to monitor the development in English proficiency over time, our data collection method has to be longitudinal. Going hand in hand with the idea of the game-like setting, the way of elicitation is spontaneous, the use of references shouldn`t be allowed (and is probably not even wanted by the participating children) and the time limitation should be as free as possible. If some children take considerably longer or shorter to complete the given task, this has to be taken into account in the evaluation. It might be possible to trace this back to a pretty high or low proficiency respectively. In both cases, it is adviseable to, for example, use means of the type/token-ratios as a way of operationalisation to ensure comparability without bias.

The ensuing question now is, what the research using learner corpora aims to do and especially, what makes it so valueable. Learner corpus research is rapidly growing research field. It makes use of its extreme interdisciplinarity – it combines the fields of corpus linguistics, second language acquisition, language teaching and natural language processing (i.e. the study and computational approximation of natural language production) – in order to better understand and describe L2 learning and develop methods of counteracting its typical difficulties (e.g. inferences of L1 background with L2 acquisition) and, even more importantly, to assess L2 learning stages according to benchmarks of the various proficiency levels using native speaker`s benchmarks as reference. An example of this is the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).

The following two exemplary case study serve as demonstration of these perks and goals.
Case Study 1 (CS1) had a cross-sectional design and looked into the frequency of formulaic sequences (i.e. fixed, prefabricated multiword sequences like "as can be seen", more formulaic sequences usually increase the perceived fluency in a language of a writer by natives, this applies to children and adults alike) in L2 writing (ACAW) at a specific point in time and compared this data with those of native (BAWE) and expert (Expert) L1 writers. The data have shown that there is no statistically significant difference in this regard between native and non-native writers (i.e. the value is >0,05), while there is a difference when comparing non-native and expert writers in the sense that the means of the use of formulaic sequences in expert writing was higher than in non-native writing.
Case Study 2 (CS2) had a longitudinal design and tracked the grammatical complexity in learning journals over the semester of a group of students at the RWTH Aachen University in a lecture like Corpus linguistics. The study has shown that, while the clausal complexity descreased over time, the phrasal complexity increased. The writing style of the students, therefore, approximated a more academic style of writing.
