Learning Journal 6
Session 7 of the Corpus Linguistics Lecture dealt with analysing quantitative data. The topics covered were the measures of central tendency, dispersion and frequency, the notion of quantiles and the effects of outliers on the data.
Descriptive stats are used to gain a better insight and understanding of the data by means of summarising and organising it.
Measures of central tendency show, as the name already suggests, the general trends i.e. most typical values in a data set. There are three main measures of central tendency: mode, the most frequent value in the collection of data, mean, the sum of the scores divided by the number of scores and the median, the score at the center of the distribution when organsing the values of the data set in ascending or descending order.
Measures of dispersion show how the data values in a data set are distributed. The main measures of dispersion are range,  standard deviation and interquartile range. The range is the difference between the highest and lowest score. The standard deviation indicates the amount of variability in a data set. The higher the value, the more variable the scores. Lastly, the interquartile range describes the difference in values when comparing the four quartiles of a data set with one another. To get the quantiles, the data set is subdivided into 100 bits or subsets, so that we have 100 percentiles. The 25th percentile then is the value or score under which 25 percent of the observations fall, it marks the first quartile. The second quartile is marked by the 50th percentile (this value simultaneously indicates the median), so 50 percent of the observations fall under that value. And the third quartile ends at the 75th percentile. The interquartile range looks at the difference between these quartiles in order to see if and in how far the scores in the data set vary depending on which quartile is observed.
Measures of frequency usually indicate the number of occurences of a particular feature as a way to, yet again, visualise trends in the data. Typical measures include ratios, rates, proportions and percentages.
There are various different methods of visualising the distribution of data. In the following, some examples will be given, and used for further explanation of the measures of central tendency and dispersion.
In the histograms of text length across the first four Learning Journals, the highest bar marks the mode of the data sets. The histograms show that the text length increased over the course of the first three LJs and was then in the fourth even lower than in the first one.
When looking at a box plot of the number of word tokens across the first four Learning Journals in this semester, the interquartile range is indicated by the width of the individual plots. The bigger they are, the bigger the variance of the values i.e. the bigger the range of the values when comparing the quartiles. The box plot shows that the interquartile range majorly increased from the first to the second LJ, got a bit smaller for the third one and then stayed more or less the same for the forth. The median, on the other hand, is indicated by the line within the individual plots. It can be seen that the median of the number of word tokens continually increased over the course of the first four learning journals, though the most significant difference was between the first and the second and between the third and the fourth learning journal.
Looking at the box plot visualisation of bigram frequencies across the first four learning journals, the interquartile range gradually decreased over time meaning that the students started using more similar amounts of bigrams. However, the median, despite a massive increase from the first the second LJ, simultaneously decreased and in the end was even lower for the fourth LJ than for the first one. The box plot of trigram frequency pretty much showed the same development, the only difference being that the interquartile range was overall a bit higher and the frequency in general was a lot lower. Also, the median of the fourth LJ eventually did not undercut the one of the first LJ.
As the last example, the box plot of the use of academic words, again, showed a very similar picture. The interquartile range had a minor decrease over time and while students overperformed in the second LJ, the median dropped in the third Learning Journal and was even lower in the fourth one.
Outliers in a data set i.e. individual values that fall way under or above the median can be problematic when it comes to the mean value, because the mean is calculated by adding all values together and then dividing it by the overall number of different values. If one of those values is extraordinarily small or large respectively, this has a major influence on the calculated value. The mean is distorted by the outliers, because the base number is then either a lot smaller or a lot bigger than it would have been without the outlier value.
