Learning Journal 7

While the main topic of the previous lecture was descriptive statistics, lecture 8 dealt with inferential statistics and answered the questions of what inferential statistics is, how statistical tests can be used to compare two groups and how statistical hypothesis testing works.

When conducting a study, we usually use representative samples for testing, because the whole population would be too big most of the time. Sample subjects can either be chosen randomly (i.e. every member of the population has equal chances to be selected), according to representativeness (i.e. subjects match in certain characteristics) or according to mere convenience (i.e. the subjects used are simply conveniently available for participation and are, hence, selected). These types of sampling not only differ method-wise but also in terms of how likely the occurence of sampling errors is. Generally speaking, convenience sampling if far more prone to sampling errors than representative sampling or even random sampling. This means that, for convenience sampling, chances are that the chosen sample does not accurately represent the characteristics of the population.

There are two different types of statistics that can be applied to the data. They are complementary to each other as they can be seen as two consecutive steps. The first step involves descriptive statistics; we use statistics to screen the data for central tendencies. For example, we use the means of vocabulary size when comparing the difference in vocabulary size between fourth and fifth graders to monitor their development in language proficiency. The second step then involves inferential statistics, where we examine the applicability of our findings from the sample to the whole population as a way to minimise possible sampling errors. Therefore, we use test statistics, for example calculating the p-value, in order to test whether our results are statistically significant. In our example of vocabluary size this means that if the p-value is below the conventional value of 0.05, we could reject the null hypothesis (.i.e. the assumption that there is no difference in vocabulary sizes) and a difference between the vocabulary size of fourth and fifth graders would be statistically significant and could be an incentive for stronger confidence in the representativemess of this development for all fourth and fifth graders.

Once we do have our data collected, there are several possible tests that can be used to compare the measures of central tendency of two different groups. The first distinction that has to be made is whether the two groups are dependent (paired) or independent (unpaired), i.e. whether the two groups are observed isolated from each other. For example, if we were to test twice within group as in a pre-post-test scenario, the groups are dependent. If we were to observe two different groups, on the other hand, they would be independent. The second distinction is between parametric and non-parametric testing. If the data resembles a normal distribution, we use a paremetric test; if not, a non-parametric test. A normal or gaussian distribution is a very common data distribution that is characterised by a bell shape, where mean, mode and median coincied in the midpoint and 68,2% of all data points cluster within one standard deviation (one sigma), 95,4% within two standard deviations and 99,6% within three standard deviations of the midpoint. Based on these disinctions an overview grid of appropriate tests for above scenarios looks as follows: an independent parametric comparison uses a t-test, a dependent parametric comparison a paired t-test; an independet non-parametric comparison uses a Mann-Whitney test, a dependent non-parametric comparison a Wilcoxon test.

Lastly, a comparison of lexical richness in L1 vs. L2 Academic Writing will be used to illustrate the logic of statistical hypothesis testing and the application of descriptive and inferential statistics. The term lexical richness encompasses the dimensions lexical density (The dimension is measured based on the proportion of lexical words as opposed to function words.), lexical diversity and lexical sophistication (These dimensions are indicated by the type-token-ratio, which is defined by the number of different lexical words (types) divided by the total number of lexical words (tokens); the closer the ratio is to 1, the richer and more diverse the vocabulary. Since the number highly varies depending on the text length, the corrected type-token-ratio is usually used to reduce and counteract this effect of the sample size on the outcome value.) and the proportion of errors (This dimensions measure is the number of language errors the subject makes.) For L1 Academic Writing, the British Academic Written English (BAWE) corpus was used; for L2 Academic Writing, the Aaachen Corpus Of Academic Writing (ACAW). The research hypotheses were as follows: The null hypothesis (H0) stated that there is no difference in lexical richness between the L1 and the L2 group, while the alternative hypothesis (H1) stated that there is a difference in lexical richness between the L1 and the L2 group. The dependent variable we were interested in is the corrected type-token ratio, a continuos variable; the independent variable we were interested in is the respective group, a categorical variable. The groups were compared by using Welch's two sample independent t-test. The outcoming distributions were normally distributed and the box plots showed that the median of the corrected type-token-ratio was higher for the L1 group. The calculated p-value was 0.001 and, therefore, far below 0.05, so the H0 hypothesis can be rejected and the difference between L1 and L2 Academic Writing can be considered highly statistically significant.
